Abhishek Lal

+91 7632881597 | lalabhishek05@gmail.com | Deoghar | LinkedIn
Data Science professional and B.E. Computer Science graduate with expertise in AI-based solutions using Machine Learning,LLM Competent in full Machine Learning Lifecycle(MLLC). Problem Solver,Data Science and ML Enthusiast.

Key Skills:-
Programming Languages: SQL(Structured Query Language), Python
Algorithms: Linear and Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Clustering, Hypothesis Testing, Boosting (XGBoost)
Analytical Tools: Pandas, Matplotlib, Scikit-Learn, Jupyter Notebook, API, NumPy
Supervised Learning: Regression, SVM, Random Forest, Gradient Boosting
Unsupervised Learning: K-Means, Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM), Agglomerative Clustering

Professional Experience:-

Verse Innovation
WFH
Data Scientist (Internship) (Internship)
	

Jun 2021 - Jul 2021

    Mastered the end-to-end Machine Learning Life Cycle (MLLC) within four weeks, progressing from raw data wrangling to deploying predictive models.
    Successfully implemented ML algorithms (SVM, Random Forests, and K-Means) to identify the most accurate model for 5 specific company datasets.
    Evaluated and visualized model performance for mathematical operations and clustering techniques, delivering a final technical presentation on model optimization from 30% to 75% to the lead data scientist.

Skills: Data Wrangling – Mathematical Operations – Web Scraping – Visualization and decision boundary plotting of the data – EDA(Exploratory Data Analysis) – ML basics – Linear Regression – Logistic Regression – SVM(Support Vector Machines – Decision Tree and Forests – Neural Networks, Clustering(K-Means,Agglomerative and GMM(Gaussian Mixture Model) – Deep Learning Basics
Projects

Credit Card Risk Modeling - FINANCE/ Data Analysis

[Python / Pandas (Data Manipulation) / NumPy (Numerical computing) / Matplotlib/Seaborn (Visualization) / Jupyter Notebook]
	

Nov 2025 - Jan 2026

    Processed and engineered features on 50K+ credit card transaction records, performing extensive EDA to identify risk patterns, anomalies, and key behavioral indicators.
    Trained and evaluated multiple risk models, including regression and boosting-based algorithms, and applied Optuna for hyper parameter tuning to optimize model performance and stability by 75% -85%
    Deployed the credit risk modeling solution using Streamlit, enabling interactive visualization of risk metrics and model outputs for enhanced business clarity and decision support.

Expense Tracking System - Finance

[Python / Streamlit / Matplotlib / FastAPI / PyCharm]
	

Jun 2025 - Jul 2025

    Performed data cleaning and preprocessing, extracting expense data directly from MySQL servers into PyCharm for structured analysis.
    Developed an end-to-end expense tracking system with a FastAPI backend and Streamlit frontend, enabling seamless server-based communication between backend and frontend.
    Visualized categorized expense insights using interactive charts and validated backend–frontend API connections through Postman with 90% accuracy.

Hospitality Domain Data Analytics - Finance/Data Analysis

[Data Analysis / MySql / Python]
	

Jun 2025 - Jul 2025

    Extracted and analyzed data from CSV files, performing comprehensive Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) to identify trends, patterns, and key business insights.
    Generated data-driven recommendations by interpreting analytical results to suggest improvement areas and strategic focus sectors for the company.
    Developed visual insights using Jupyter Notebook, leveraging Matplotlib for clear graphical representation and effective communication of findings and enhancing the model optimization from 45% to 80%

Education

Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra
	

Jharkhand, India

Bachelor of Engineering - Computer Science Engineering

6.14 CGPA
	

Jul 2016 - Aug 2020 
